Only essential amino acids are required
to stimulate and sustain muscle protein
synthesis. Only now non-essential amino
acids like what you get from whey
protein do not stimulate muscle protein
synthesis when essential amino acids are
not present. So if you have this, you
grow. If you don't have this, you don't.
Hi, my name is John Jquish. Today I want
to talk about how to get the highest
quality protein at the lowest price.
People have been following me for a long
time. I'm always in the mindset that I
want somebody to spend the least amount
of money to get the most results. You'll
notice there's influencers out there
that recommend literally 300 supplements
for people to take. You know, my my
headspace is like 300. How do you even
know what's doing what? You don't
because you can't isolate variables. I
mean, this is why I I basically promote
one supplement. We have a couple other
supplements, but they're not critical.
Foraggen is a critical one and I want to
talk about that in regards to a complete
day of nutrition and how to save the
most amount of money and I'll always be
trying to encourage people to not throw
their money away. The cost of Forden
is $2.7 if you have the subscription. So
you can subscribe to getting however
many you want per month. About 45
servings in a container. I take six
servings a day. So that gives me there's
50 g of servings. So I get 300 gram of
that. So I get I take three servings in
the morning.
So that's like $6. And then three
servings in the afternoon. And then so
those are like kind of meal
replacements. And then I have a dinner
which is primarily steak. So I might get
like a a if I'm hungry, I'll get like a
2 lb ribeye. If I'm not hungry, because
I'm getting my my protein
from such a solid source, I don't I
don't really have to worry about that.
So, I'm really more worried about fats.
Some nights I'm not hungry. I can skip
the ribeye all together and I'll do like
liver worst on pork rinds. Now, I know
that doesn't sound that that's delicious
to me. I think liver eating raw liver
sucks. Liver worst, it's processed. It's
spiced. It h it doesn't have the kind of
slimy texture to it. And then you can
just take like a little butter knife and
put it on some pork rinds. I think
that's like an awesome dinner if you
don't have like a huge appetite and
you're getting essential fats. So that's
that's really the point because the
protein is covered by this. Now, lately,
and I know you guys are going to be
shocked that I say this, but lately
there have been a lot of people that
have saying the claims I make about
forgen are not accurate. Now, a lot of
people on the internet say a lot of
things are not accurate and then once
they start talking, you realize they
don't they're not even using the words
of the subject properly. So, they not
only know,
they're not only confused, they're not
confused, they just don't know what the
hell they're talking about at all. Uh,
and I'm going to read you what what chat
GPT has to say about consuming essential
amino acids. So, uh, I'll put this up on
the screen as well, but muscle protein
synthesis is driven by essential amino
acids, not total protein.
So, like that right there, you should
probably write that down because the
argument of protein is really not about
protein. It's about essential amino
acids because the non-essential ones
mean nothing because your body makes
those or can make those if you don't
ingest them. So, now here, let let me
let me read a little further. Only
essential amino acids are required to
stimulate and sustain muscle protein
synthesis.
Only
Now, non-essential amino acids like what
you get from whey protein do not
stimulate muscle protein synthesis when
essential amino acids are not present.
So, if you have this, you grow. If you
don't have this, you don't. Now, there
is a tiny bit of essential amino acids
in whey protein, about 18%. And this
this is the issue that people are seem
seemingly upset about. Uh, but it's okay
because they don't know what the hell
they're talking about. That statistic
came from a a paper that was written in
the 90s and the journal no longer
exists. So, I'm probably going to stop
referring to it, but I will just put
things like this on the screen where we
can have chat GPT, which by the way is
biased towards popular information, as
in when it sees a lot of different data
points that come to the same conclusion,
it's going to say, "Yeah, that's the
right answer." And that's actually often
not the right answer, especially when it
comes to something relating to nutrition
because we've been lied to by by snack
food companies about nutrition. You
know, protein has been demonized. So,
even through all that clutter, Chat GBT
is crystal clear on this issue.
Essential amino acids are what you need.
If it's not essential amino acids, you
don't need it. So, like very little of
what's in whey protein. And here's
another one like pea protein, vegetable
protein, that's 9%
essential amino acids. If somebody gave
me a can of, you know, vegan protein, I
would just said I would I would reject
the uh the gift. I'd be like, "I'm
sorry. I'm not going to I'm not going to
have this." Or, you know, if they sent
it to me, I'd just say, "Thanks." And
I'd just throw it away because I don't
even want that in my system. That's
garbage. So focusing on super high
quality protein and then just getting
one solid meal based on hunger. And
hunger will be driven probably by what
you've been doing with your workouts. So
like on a non-workout day, you're
probably not going to be all that
hungry. On a day where you had a great
workout, you're probably going to be
real hungry. You can let that be the
guide. I do very often. and I think
you'll be all set and primed for nothing
but getting leaner, getting stronger,
getting bigger, and succeeding. Let me
know if you have any questions in the
comments, and I'll see you on the next
one. If this video helped you, I want
you to subscribe and follow. I'm going
to put out videos on a regular basis. I
think they're going to help a whole lot
of people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.